So if it's not a priority queue,
it's probably a trie, or really,
it should be pronounced tree, because it
actually is named after a retrieval tree.
But somebody really think about that,
a tree tree doesn't sound very good.
So we have a tree tree
called the trie tree,
and sometimes they're called
prefix trees or digital trees.
I don't know why they're called
digital trees, sounds kinda weird,
sounds like a bunch of zeros and
ones to me.
So this happens a ton.
I have been in at least one interview
where a trie tree is the answer.
And if you don't know what a trie tree is,
the easiest way to think
about it is an autocomplete.
So if I type in A,
what should you give me back?
What kinda results
should you give me back?
That's just a trie, that's all it is,
and it can do it in O(1) time given that
the keys meet some sort of minimum length
or some sort of length, that they fall
within, like the English words,
an English word can only be so long.
There's not a thousand-letter
long English word, so therefore,
you can't have that, so
constant time lookup.
We're not gonna implement one just
cuz it's a practice in pointers, and
we just don't need to do yet
another doubly linked list.
But instead,
we will go through and we will whiteboard
one out, they're actually pretty easy.
So let's go to right here.
All right, so we're gonna do a trie.
People call it trie,
I still like to call it a tree cuz
it really truly is a retrieval tree.
All right, so how it effectively
works is that you have a root.
The root does not have any value itself,
but what it does have is, by the way,
I'll just kinda preface this, we're gonna
do an English language tree, right?
So that's what we're gonna be doing.
So if that's the case,
that means our tree could have 1 of
26 possible symbols as its children,
unless of course,
we're also considering underscores or
capitalization is case sensitive.
If we're considering those other things,
then yes, there'll be some other stuff,
but usually when you're
doing spell checking,
you don't necessarily have
to consider those things.
So let's just pretend we're
building a spell checker,
we'd only need 26 characters.
And why I say that is let's say we
want to add the word cat to our trie.
Well, what we're gonna do
is one of our 26 children,
which is the c, will simply be a child.
And then from there, we're gonna go from
c and we're gonna add a child a, and
from there we're gonna add a child t.
And now we're gonna mark t in such a way,
and there's two methods for marking t.
One of them is that it has one last
child called the asterisk child, and
that denotes, hey,
this path that you're on is a word.
The other way you can do that is that the
nodes themselves contain some sort of is
word Boolean flag.
I kinda like that approach better than
having this star approach because then you
have to go check the 27th child.
And then if the 27th child exists,
then you know for
a fact I'd just rather have a more
stronger signal than an implicit one.
So there you go, so we have cat,
it's been marked as a word.
Then we want to add cats,
so how do we do that?
Well, we go, okay,
we have a c link, we have an a link,
we have a t link, well,
let's have an s link.
We now have cats, we've now marked
that node also as a potential word.
So then of course we add cattle.
Well, that's gonna do the exact
same thing again, except for at t,
we're gonna do this, t, l,
I didn't realize it ends right there, E.
Well, good thing we're not doing the
asterisk approach cuz I would have just
got my asterisk in trouble.
All right,
it's a pretty good pun by the way.
So there you go, is now marked these
three words and they all start with c.
So if we were to add,
say another one say card,
you could obviously see that we
could do an r and then a D, right?
And D would be marked, and
then we can also just add other words in,
such as MARC, right?
We'd have an M, A, R, C, MARC,
there we go Mark the name,
we have it right there, that's your name.
So there we go,
we actually just added it to the tree,
now we can traverse and find out.
So if someone starts typing C,
what do we have to do to give you
some amount of autocomplete back?
Well, we're gonna have to start traverse
to see do we have an element that
starts with, do we have the C branch?
Yes, we do.
Awesome, so I'm gonna start here.
So often what this is done is usually
the C branch in this case would represent
index 2.
There are some easy ways to
be able to find this out,
I figured I'd just throw this in here for
fun.
Here's the fun little thing for those
that haven't done a lot of C programming.
Here's a great way to know, so
you can have zero = "a".charCodeAt, right?
So zero is 97, and then if you had a C,
you could create a function called index,
which say you pass in a string,
and this is simply
going to return str.charCodeAt(0)- zero.
And now you have the ability
to go idx("c"), still, right?
So you're able to kinda do this little
game where you're actually just minusing
character stuff out, ASCII symbols,
blah, blah, blah, blah, so
you can kinda go into your array.
You can also do this with unicode and
other stuff, but it may be,
I don't know how it works in JavaScript.
But if you have a proper language that
can give you an integer value out,
you can offset into it and
do these kinda cool little tricks, right?
All right, let's go back here.
So that means if we were to go to C,
someone types a C, and
we want to display a list of words,
how are we gonna do this?
Well, what we're gonna have
to do is we're gonna have to
do a depth first search, right?
We can technically also do
a breadth first search,
depends on how we want our words out.
If we want them, say sorted naturally by,
say alphabetical ordering, if we do
a depth first search, we will always get
ourselves the alphabetical ordering,
which is actually pretty neat.
That's all we have to do is do
a pre-order traversal, as we see a word,
we put it into our results.
And there we go, we'd actually get cat,
cats, cattle, card, and that'd be great.
So we'd actually get them
in alphabetical ordering.
But if we were to do this,
we have to simply traverse down, and
add each one of these words to our list.
We'd come back up, come here,
come here, my goodness, where's my pen?
Come to right here, and there we go,
we found cattle, we found cat and cats.
And lastly, we'd come back out here,
then come back up here, and
we'd find card as well, and now we have
a nice list of words to display to a user.
But another challenge is obviously
there's usually a huge set of words.
So how do we kinda find the right words?
Well, another thing you can do with
a trie is you can also add a score or
a frequency, and these are things that can
be stored really at runtime, all that.
So if you're building a trie because you
have these results, but you wanna make
sure that the users' most selected items
are getting more often at the top.
Have you ever used autocomplete on your
phone and you try to type in the word time
and it autocompletes to tine,
the little pokey part of a fork?
And you're like, how did you get that when
clearly time is the answer, why tine?
It's because they have
a poor scoring algorithm.
That used to happen all the time on
Android phones, when you'd swipe type time
and you'd miss, it didn't correct
correctly, it's just frustrating.
But nonetheless,
that is effectively how these things work,
it is a simple depth first search.
We've already done depth first searches,
we should already know how to do this.
We've already done pre-order traversals,
this really isn't a hard thing to do,
right?
Now that we have the tools to do this,
it is quite simple to be
able to build up this tree.
And so insertion is really the hard part,
and deletion is really the hard part.
Insertion is just a simple iterative
loop where you go to the current node.
So we can do this, we can kind of
write this out in pseudocode, right?
So insertion,
we really need to just start at a node.
Really, that just needs to be the head.
So we don't even need to make this.
We need to insert some sort of string,
right?
So we can have our current equal our head,
and
then we can simply walk
through the character list.
So we can do a little for c in str, right?
And at this point,
we simply walk to each point.
If current has the character,
then we can just simply set
current to the character.
Else, we're gonna have to create it,
right?
So we could create a new node, and
I'll just have this thing called create N,
right, create node.
Very, very simple, right?
Look at that.
Then we could do current,
this character equals node, I should
have called it n if I was smart, which
I'm not, and then current equals node.
There we go,
that's really all insertion is,
is we're just walking to the end
inserting if we need to insert.
And then of course, current,
well, that's in the for loop.
Outside of the for loop,
we need to say curr.isword = true.
And there we go,
we've just inserted into our trie.
It's actually not all that hard to be
able to write this data structure,
it's immensely useful, and
often you're gonna find that you get asked
some variation of this question,
probably in an interview.
I really, really like, we've asked
them at Netflix, they're fantastic.
Deletion, of course is the exact opposite,
easier to use recursion for
deletion, because you want to
get to the point of the node.
And then in post operation,
you want to delete your way back up.
Remember how I said that there's three
parts to recursion, pre, recurse, post?
This would be a post operation or a post
traversal that makes a lot of sense.
Long as you have your parent and yourself
and the expected node in which you,
or the expected link in which
you want to be able to delete.
You get all the way to it,
get the link you wanna delete,
delete it from your parent
as you walk back up.
And so it makes sense,
cuz if you delete before you go,
you're only gonna make one deletion,
and then the whole tree is gone.
You don't wanna do that,
that sounds terrible.
And of course, you only delete if
you're the only link left, right?
Or you could just leave the node around,
right?
Depends on how you wanna
use your memory or not.
That makes deletion way faster,
it makes it a constant time deletion
versus a constant time deletion, but
there's a constant of times two on that
deletion cuz you have to delete back up.
So it's a little different,
just things to trade off,
things to be able to talk about, things
to be able to kind of explain to someone
why you choose one way versus the other.
If memory is not a problem, leave it,
if it is a problem,
remove it, you get the idea.
We always had to delete it at Netflix
cuz often we'd run on small devices,
so we'd actually use a special data
structure that is like a trie.
That's how we did our caching,
I explained Falkor yesterday.
Falkor is effectively just a trie,
that's all it is.
It's a big trie that is represented as
a tree and each one of the keys in,
that's how you move around.
So it was pretty fun,
it was pretty neat, so
I've used a trie in my real life as well.
I just kinda wanted to walk through it and
talk about it cuz they're super cool.
They're not all that fun to implement,
but they are super cool.
So there we go, everyone good to go,
do we have any questions?
>> Someone did mention this
comes up in interviews, and
I'm interested, what does the interview
question look like on a test?
>> Interview question is often like,
I have a list of words and I wanna build
an autocomplete, when you hear the word
autocomplete, be like, gotcha, right?
Or I wanna build a caching mechanism,
often caching mechanism if you
can see a path that they want,
and the path can vary in various points
kinda like the Falkor example, right?
So if our path to our data looks
a little something like videos, right,
Id, title, and we want to cache
this in some sort of graph,
Id is the thing that can vary, right?
We can have one, two, three, we can have
four, five, six, we can have seven, eight,
nine, so obviously we're gonna want
something that has like say, videos,
does videos even exists?
It does exist, does this Id exist?
This Id does exist.
Does title exist on that Id?
It does, here you go, here's your cache.
That Id doesn't exist, sir, we don't have
it, we don't have title, we don't have it.
So it's usually like a caching slash
autocomplete problem that you're
often gonna see this in.
>> What was written in
the first line after the else?
>> The first line of the else, yeah, yeah,
that was some super pseudocode
right there, right?
I simply just said, hey,
let's create a node, right?
What is a node?
A node of course is gonna look
something along the lines of isword,
which is a Boolean value, plus a children,
which could be a 26th-sized
array of nodes,
if we're doing an English autocomplete.
So it's kinda like a hard coded, this is
the size of what we're gonna be doing.
If it was a language in which did that
of course, these would be pointers.
You could just keep on creating that or
else you'd explode your
memory until you die.
So there you go,
that would be creating out.
We got another question?
>> Yeah, sorry,
you mentioned this is constant time.
>> So it is constant time cuz
you have to determine what is N?
N in this case is not the string
we're inputting into the algorithm,
it's the amount of nodes.
As we add more and more nodes,
as we add hundreds upon hundreds of words,
does our lookup time change?
It doesn't change, it's based on some
finite predetermined amount of length.
If the longest English word is 12,
then you're right, it's 12 node checks and
that is it.
So that's a constant time is
that's how you can think of it.
Often you'll run to these algorithms
where N may not be what you think it is,
you can kinda swap it
around in a unique way.
>> So it's technically the height, but the
height is bound by the English dictionary?
>> Yes, so Graham just said it's
technically O(H), H being the height,
but height is usually bound by
some maximum sequence, yes.
I'm sure if there's a way in which the
height is not bound by maximum sequence,
then it would now then be O(H), right,
if you had an ever running longer one.
But I'd probably question that
you're probably not using the right
data structure if you have some
ever longer running string that
keeps on getting bigger.
Probably not the right way,
cuz now you're just gonna have
a huge amount of memory being used.